
Web cache deception

1) what is it ? Ø§ÙŠØ´ Ù‡ÙŠ 
  a bug where you trick the web cache to store a senstive content e.g. (profile page, bank details, ...etc) |

2) why ? Ù„ÙŠØ´ ØªØ­Ø¯Ø«
  due to the diffrence in handling request by the cache server and the origin server     


3) WCD ðŸ†š Web Cache Poisoning

    WCD: trick the cache to store sensitive data 

    Web Cache Poisoning: trick the cache to store malicious content that will be served to other users


4) âš™ï¸ Web Cache Rules : 1- what can be cache  2- and for how long 

  Cache Rules: used for the static content because it doesn't change frequently, unlike the Dynamic content which usally contain sensitive information

  some of the rules:

  Static file extension rules : e.g. (.js, .css, .......) 
  Static Directories Rules: e.g. (/static/*)
  Static File Name: e.g.  (/robots.txt)

4) ðŸ”‘ Cache Keys 

    When the cache get an HTTP request it should decided :
    
     1- do I have a cached response for this request ?
     2- should forward it to the origin server ?
     
     and here come the cache keys which is mostly consist of: 
     A) the /PATH 
     B) Parameters of the request 
     C) some HTTP headers 
     
     If the cache key matches a previous request then â†’ the response is considered the same and is served from the cache, if not it will be forwarded to the origin server and then get cached.

5) How to identify cached response ?

    for that you need to inspect the HTTP response headers

      X-Cache: HIT ----------> this means the repsone came from the cache server.
      X-Cache: MISS ---------> this means the response came from the origin server.
      X-Cache: DYNAMIC ------> this means Content is dynamically generated from the server, often not stored.
      
      Cache-Control: this header give important information fo the attacker for example if the value of this header is set to : public, max-age=3600, this indicates the attack might work, 
      however if the header contain one or more of this values the attack won't work: private, max-age=600, no-cache, no-store, max-age=0




6) ðŸ§ª ATTACK

    A) Find endpoint that return Dynamic content and sensitive information 
    B) Identify the difference between server and cache in interpreting paths
    C) craft a malicious URL to trick cache to store the dynamic content


NOTE : use a cache buster to make sure the cached repsone doesn't get served to all the visitor of the URL like: /account?buster=11111



		
